mpty chairs, hanging mirrors, a burning pyre, water tubs- the stage seemed set for the visual spectacle that chronicled the infamous Delhi December 16 gang-rape incident that hit the city in 2012.

'Nirbhaya: Breaking the Silence', a play based on the gruesome incident of a 23 year old student being brutally gangraped in a moving bus was staged in the capital recently to a packed audience.

The play also narrated the personal testimonies of the actors who were themselves victims of sexual violence.

Written and directed by the award-winning playwright, Yael Farber, Nirbhaya was premiered at the prestigious Edinburgh Festival Fringe last year and won the Amnesty International Freedom of Expression Award.

Dialogues laden with poetry, anger oozing out in every scene, Sanskrit shlokas playing in the background and a spellbound audience, summed up the performance.

Poorna Jagannathan, one of the performers and best known for the film 'Delhi Belly', equates sexual violence with an epidemic.

"The sexual violence has almost become an epidemic. It is not just a woman problem, or a man-woman problem; it is in fact a global problem," Poorna said.

Sapna Bhavnani, a hairstylist by profession and another performer from the play shared her concern for the rape survivors, and dismissed the idea of just brandishing the perpetrators.

"What we should do with the perpetrators of crime against women is not my area of concern. I don't want to enter into a conversation that whether we should hang them or cut them into pieces. I want to ask what are we doing with the rape survivors, acid attack victims and the survivors of other forms of crime," Sapna asked.

Sapna, who is the spokesperson for PETA, Stop Acid Attacks and Fight Back also shared a startling statistic with the audience.

"A statistic claims that one out of four women are raped in the world, that means women have more chances for getting raped than being educated. That is insane," Sapna says.

Priyanka Bose, who was last seen in the film 'Gulaab Gang'; Sneha Jawale, an acid attack survivor; Japjit Kaur, singer-songwriter and Ankur Vikal constituted the
There is no doubting the fact that Shah Rukh Khan is a massive sports fan. His co-ownership of the Kolkata franchise of a domestic T20 cricket tournament, his on-screen turn as a hockey coach (in Chak De! India; 2007) and several interviews in which he’s talked about the need for people to encourage various sporting disciplines in India, prove that.
 
It was perhaps for this reason that, a few years back, veteran badminton player (and actor Deepika Padukone's father) Prakash Padukone, approached Shah Rukh to sponsor Indian shuttler Saina Nehwal. The Olympic medal-winner was, at the time, just a rising young athlete. SRK, it seems, at the time, had his hands full managing his franchise, Kolkata Knight Riders, and therefore, wasn’t able to associate with any other sport.
Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan waves at his fans.

This came to light when, last year, Shah Rukh made the startling revelation himself at a public event. He even went on to apologise to Saina, who was present at the event. Ask Saina about it now, and she says with a smile, "I really liked his gesture. He is a great hero. I see his movies, and like his acting."
 
Coincidentally, Saina says that one of the Bollywood films she managed to find time for amid her hectic schedule was last year’s blockbuster, Shah Rukh-starrer, Chennai Express that was directed by Rohit Shetty.

Read: Shah Rukh Khan is a charming man: Neha Sharma

Saina has been known to be friendly with SRK’s co-star, Deepika (who, as a teenager, played national-level badminton). Although the shuttler believes Deepika has been doing good work, she maintains that since we are in diverse fields, they haven’t been in constant touch. But she maintains that she had a nice meeting in Bengaluru with Deepika's sister, Anisha, recently.

With rumours of a biopic on Saina being rife in Bollywood, ask who she would like to see portraying her, and she says, "When something is decided, then this question will come."
- See more at: http://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/bollywood/i-liked-shah-rukh-khan-s-gesture-of-saying-sorry-to-me-saina-nehwal/article1-1199761.aspx#sthash.6O1e2AXs.dpuf
