Director Abhishek Kapoor will bring Indian mythology’s greatest epic ‘The Mahabharata’ on the big screen.

“‘The Mahabharata’ expresses the universal truth; it has defined my understanding of spirituality and of all humanity. I aim to translate this onto the big screen, engage minds and deliver a world class cinematic experience,” Abhishek Kapoor  said in a statement.
Disney India, today announced their plans of gearing up to recreate the magic of this remarkable story in live action at a scale never seen before in Indian cinema, which will be directed by Abhishek Kapoor and written by renowned author Ashok Banker.

“Indian mythology has a great wealth of stories which have inspired legions of creative minds and ‘The Mahabharata’ unarguably is the most ambitious and encompassing. We believe this epic which has engaged generations of Indians will translate into a magnificent silver screen saga,” Siddharth Roy Kapur, managing director of Disney India, said.

The film will go into pre-production after the completion of Abhishek Kapoor’s next venture with the studio, ‘Fitoor’, which goes on the floors in July.

Disney India is looking to recreate the world's greatest epic for the big screen. The Mahabharata will be made in two parts and will be directed by Kai Po Che director Abhishek Kapoor and written by famous author Ashok Banker.

The managing director of Disney India, Siddharth Roy Kapur believes that The Mahabharata is one of the most ambitious stories ever written and the studio is confident that the team of Abhishek Kapoor and Banker will do a great job in translating the epic to the big screen. Talking about the film, Abhishek said, “The Mahabharata expresses the universal truth; it has defied my understanding of spirituality and of all humanity. I aim to translate this onto the big screen, engage minds and deliver a world class cinematic experience.”

Films Of India

Abhishek will start working on the film after he completes Fitoor and it should release sometime in 2015. Apparently, the first part will focus more on the relationship between the Pandavas and the Kauravas while the second part will be fully about the epic Kurukshetra war.

India's greatest epic story has been televised a number of times with varying success. But with such big and talented names helming this project, this film may just turn out to be the definitive Mahabharata experience.

What do you think would be the perfect cast for The Mahabharata? Maybe Ranbir or Ranveer as Arjun? And how about Deepika Padukone as Draupadi and all her ex-lovers playing the paanch pandavas? Now wouldn't that make an exciting film?

