agini MMS2: Movie review

DIRECTOR: Bhushan Patel

CAST: Sunny Leone, Pravin Dabas, Karan Mehra, Sandhya Mridul, Divya Dutta

Rating: **1/2

A film unit goes off to a deserted house in the middle of a forest for a shoot. Because this is a sequel to Ragini MMS, we are already primed for what is about to happen: a vengeful spirit will get after the humans, and scare us witless in the process.

The original film boasted a dirty weekend between a horny fellow and his nervous-but-willing girl-friend. That one got the “dirty” bit right, but slid off on the scary aspect, being more tell than show. The sequel goes much further in the down-and-dirty aspect, because it has a perfect lead to deliver on its promises. The lusciously curved Sunny Leone fits her part like her tight sheaths, and makes Ragini MMS2 Bollywood’s first unabashed adult sex-horror flick, begging the Ramsay Bros pardon.

Ms Leone, who is called Sunny in the movie (just in case there is any confusion, either for her or us) has been hired by a director (Dabas) who wants to make a film on the Ragini case. We are treated to a lingering exhibition of Sunny’s pneumatic wares, and lest we think she is all bod, no brains, the dialogue-writer gives her such lines as this — Director: “Is it hot or is it you?” Sunny: “Err, global warming?”

Right, got that. After which, there is the haunted house, and the chudail, and Sunny and her endless array of baby-doll night-wear, and the members of the cast who rattle about the place, waiting for their turn. There’s Sandhya Mridul, acting so well against type as the hair-brained wannabe who knows that she has to “compro” to get somewhere. Karan Mehra, the TV star who has a great line about TV actors (this being an Ekta Kapoor production, there must have been a great deal of chortling when these “inner joke” dialogues were dreamt up). And Divya Dutta playing the mandatory “psychiatrist” with a book of “mantras” at hand to chase evil spirits away.

Despite its harum-scarum script and barely-there logic (why would the senior crew

Ragini MMS 2 has an eventful opening weekend serving the purpose of casting Sunny Leone in the lead, as she was expected to be the star draw. The film has collected Rs 21.4 crore for the opening weekend; but is not expected to sustain during the week.
 
Ankhon Dekhi, Lakshmi and Gang Of Ghosts fail to find the audience this weekend.
 
Bewakoofiyan starring Ayushmann Khurrana and Sonam Kapoor has failed to make a mark at the box office. After an indifferent four day opening weekend, the first week run accounts for Rs 12.55 crore.
 
Queen continues to defy all norms to exceed its first week collections in week two backed by much appreciation. The film collects Rs 19.2 crore taking its two week tally to Rs 37.7 crore. The film continues to do well in its third week as well; lack of a worthy opposition helping its cause as well.
 
Gulaab Gang drops below Rs 1 crore in its second week, adds just Rs 90 lakh taking its two week total to Rs 11.1crore.
 
Total Siyapaa takes its two week tally to Rs 6.35 crore after adding Rs 50 lakh for its second week.
 
Shaadi Ke Side Effects manages a fair sum of Rs 1.5 crore in its third week, in the absence of competition; taking its three week total to Rs 36.55 crore.

