While we thought Sonam Kapoor is ever soaked in her fashionista avatar and wants to be perpetually known as the style icon, we witnessed an altogether different side of the beautiful actress lately.

	ANIL KAPOOR WITH DAUGHTER SONAM KAPOOR ON 	
	ANIL KAPOOR WITH DAUGHTER SONAM KAPOOR ON 'KOFFEE WITH KARAN' 	
	

Sonam Kapoor, who is the next guest to appear on the popular chat show 'Koffee With Karan', revealed her secret desire of entering into politics and doing social work. Both Karan Johar, the host of the show, and Paa Anil Kapoor, who would be sharing the Koffee couch with his beloved daughter, were stunned and happy to discover about Sonam's ideologies. While Anil and Karan were in disbelief to hear, Sonam didn't seem flippant about it.

CHECK OUT: Sonam Kapoor sips 'Koffee' with papa Anil Kapoor & Karan Johar

Well, where many an actors and youngistanis shy away from the name of politics, we are proud that here's one lady who at least wishes to consider it! Kudos to you Sonam! 
Actor Riteish Deshmukh, who has impressed the audience with his comic timing and unique one-liners in various movies, is now looking forward to his next film 'Humshakals'. He says it's the funniest film he has ever done.

"I think it ('Humshakals') is by far the funniest film I have done," Riteish said here at Vashu Bhagnani's party to celebrate the producer's 25 films in Hindi filmdom.

'Humshakals' is being directed by Sajid Khan and will see Riteish in a triple role.
'Humshakals' is funniest film I've ever done: Riteish Deshmukh
Riteish Deshmukh is now looking forward to his next film 'Humshakals'.

"This is the first time a film has its lead characters in triple roles. A lot of confusion is there in the film," said the actor, who was seen last year in adult comedy 'Grand Masti'.

Besides Riteish, actors Saif Ali Khan and Ram Kapoor will also be seen in triple roles in 'Humshakals' produced by Bhagnani. Slated to release June 20, it features Bipasha Basu, Tammannah Bhatia and Esha Gupta as the female leads.
