At a special screening of Nagesh Kukunoor's Lakshmi for sex workers held at the centre of a red-light area, the filmmaker was accosted by a group of extremely overwrought sex workers who wanted to know who played the nasty pimp in the film.

"Agar woh mil jaye to hum ussey aisa sabak sikhaayenge ki naani yaad aa jayegi (If we find him, we will teach him a lesson to remember)," the workers told Nagesh Kukunoor after the screening.

The screening was held at the Alankar theatre on Grant Road.

Of course when they got to know that the "offender" was none other than Nagesh Kukunoor himself, the sex workers directed their wrath at him, bombarding him with loud expletives and jostling him until he had to be whisked away.

Laughing at the experience, the film's co-producer Elahi Heptoolah said, "It was a screening only for the sex workers of Kamathipura (Mumbai's red-light district). The atmosphere was charged and emotional. The ladies completely empathized with what was being shown on screen. They felt it was their own story put up there and the pimp, played by our dear director Nagesh, represented everything that was evil in their lives. They felt a deep hatred for his character. They couldn't recognize Nagesh who stood quietly outside to see them off after the show as the guy played they pimp. When they did, they were very upset."

There are plans to show Nagesh Kukunoor's film to prostitutes all across India.

"We feel Lakshmi is relevant to sex workers' lives far beyond a film. We want to expose the film in all the red-light areas of the country. But first we're trying to get it released in Alankar cinema on Grant Road, so all the sex workers would be able to watch it," added Heptoolah. 
As everyone is well aware, Bollywood superstar Salman Khan is an incredible ally to have on one’s side. For the fast friend will go out of his way to help his near and dear ones, as has been demonstrated time and time again.

This time, Salman Khan went all out, to spread the word about his brother-in-law Atul Agnihotri’s upcoming film, O Teri. Considering the Dabangg Khan has more than 6 million followers on the social networking site, anything he posts will be seen by millions of people. Moreover, Salman fans refer to him as Bhai, and his word is usually law for them.

So it was wonderful to see him tweet about Atul’s directorial venture, which stars Salman’s own protege Pulkit Samrat, and newcomer Bilal Amrohi. Salman tweeted two hours ago: “O Teri this friday the 28th.” , and the tweet was picked up and RT’d by his fans instantly.

A couple of days ago, Salman even posted a couple of pictures of Pulkit, to generate buzz for the film. The handsome young star considers Salman his mentor, and will be seen in O Teri after Bittoo Boss, Jai Ho, and Fukrey.

Interestingly, Salman had a while back tried to promote his friend Subhash Ghai‘s film Kaanchi too, by tweeting and informing his fans of the same.
