Bollywood actor Sanjay Dutt, convicted in the 1993 Mumbai serial blasts, Saturday evening returned to the Yerawada Central Jail here after his parole ended after 90 days, officials said.

 

Sanjay Dutt

 

The 53-year-old Dutt was released on a month-long parole Dec 21 last year on the grounds of his wife Maanyata's illness.

 

Later, the parole was extended by a month till Feb 21 and then again till March 21, inviting a barrage of criticism from various quarters over the repeated parole granted to him.

 

Prior to the three paroles, Dutt was granted a fortnight's furlough, which was extended by another fortnight in October on grounds of his own illness. The actor's 37-year-old wife Maanyata was hospitalised in January after she complained of lung complications.

 

A convict in the March 1993 Mumbai blasts, Dutt is serving the remainder of his five-year imprisonment at Yerawada since 
Superstar Salman Khan is set to expand his charitable organisation "Being Human" by opening up more stores in the country as well as go international with stores in Sri Lanka.

"A lot of people are buying 'Being Human' clothing and we are doing pretty well. This year we plan to open about 40 more stores and we would be in about 1,850 selling points. Plus we have tied up with Sri Lanka," the 48-year-old said here Sunday at a VEER campaign by Thums Up.

"We are doing pretty okay and now we want to start cafes, gyms and all that kind of stuff. All the money we make will go straight back into the charitable trust after paying taxes," he added.

Salman added that they are taking things slow as they want new ventures to be permanent.

"We are trying to start as many permanent things, that's the reason we are slow. It shouldn't be that we start something in a hurry and then it shuts down. We got the clothing line and it's doing really well. Then we will start a few more things," Salman said.

"The important thing is that whoever we want to partner with, we want them to make money. Then it's their call whether they want to give it to charity or keep it for themselves," he added.

"Being Human" is Salman's charitable organisation which works for the underprivileged. Its first store opened last year in Mumbai.


Read more at: http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/salman-khan-plans-expansion-for-being-human/1/350979.html
