Koffee With Karan episodes are usually full of eyebrow raising revelations, interesting anecdotes and lots of filmi gossip. Filmmakers Zoya Akhtar and Rohit Shetty were welcomed on Karan Johar's couch and they too did not lag behind in giving out funny anecdotes from their experiences as directors so far. Read on to know what beans did Zoya and Rohit spill on Karan's Koffee couch.

Kareena's bizarre DDLJ theory- Zoya Akhtar said while she gets along with Kareena Kapoor Khan very well and is fond of the actress, she let out Kareena's bizarre theory out for everyone to know! At a party at Shah Rukh Khan's house a long time ago, Zoya revealed that she got into a discussion on films with Kareena. Kareena asked Zoya if she liked 'Dilwale Dulhaniya Le Jayenge'? When Zoya said she liked the film, Kareena asked her that after watching 'DDLJ' did she "want to run behind a train"? When Zoya said "no" Kareena asked her if 'DDLJ' was her favourite film? When Zoya said she liked it a lot but DDLJ isn't her favourite film, Kareena told her she will never make a movie! Zoya tells Rohit that Kareena told her "if you don't think 'Dilwale...' is the best film ever made then you won't be a director'. Shah Rukh had to intervene and calm Kareena and Zoya at his party then. 


Consumer goods firm Dabur India today said it has roped in Pakistani actor-singer Ali Zafar, who appears in Bollywood films, as the new brand ambassador for its 'OxyLife Men' product.
     
A new campaign, featuring Ali Zafar, will be launched shortly, Dabur India said in a statement.
     
"We believe Ali Zafar exemplifies and brings to life the values and the proposition of OxyLife Men and we are confident of the success of this relationship," Dabur India head of Marketing-Skin Care Sanjay Singal said.
     
OxyLife Men Creme Bleach has been developed keeping the male skin in mind, he added.

Ali Zafar has appeared in Bollywood movies like 'Mere Brother ki Dulhan', 'London, Paris, New York', 'Tere Bin Laden', and as a recording artist has music albums to his credit.

