 Most successful, strategist and loved captain of Team India Mahendra Singh Dhoni recognised leg-spinner Amit Mishra's talent only after latter's Delhi team-mate and stand-in captain for Asia Cup, Virat Kohli, fielded him for the tournament played in Bangladesh from February 25 to March 8, 2014.

In return, the leggie did not disappoint his skipper and in his full quota of 20 overs in two matches he picked up three wickets and gave away just 49 runs. That's the best economy rate (2.45) by any bowler during the Asia Cup.

After their one wicket defeat to arch-rivals Pakistan, Virat Kohli felt Amit Mishra showed a lot of courage in taking up the challenge he threw at him. He said that he was not shocked at all. He was rather proud of the way the boys fought it out. 245 against a team like Pakistan and on that wicket with the dew was not easy to defend, he added.

If you see the kind of batsmen they had and our inexperience in bowling department, still to put up that kind of fight. He (Mishra) gave only 28 runs in 10 overs, took two wickets, bowled brilliantly against the likes of Misbah, Hafeez, Umar Akmal and Shahid Afridi, Kohli praised the Delhi tweaker after the match.

Now the simple question is why Mishra was ignored over the years again and again? Why wasn't he included in the playing XI at Durban, Johannesburg, Auckland, Wellington, Napier or Hamilton? Mishra, who has recently spent more time on the bench than on the field, has played just three Twenty20 Internationals despite making limited-over debut in 2003. He has made 13 Tests and 23 one-day appearances for India so far.

These questions became more prominent after his current performances in the ongoing ICC World T20 when he helped his side to register two wins in as many matches. In its inaugural match played at Shere Bangla National Stadium, Mirpur the Indian team registered a thumping victory over arch-rivals Pakistan by seven wickets with nine balls to spare.

Skipper MS Dhoni showed his faith in Mishra as he fielded three spinners against the arch-rival neighbour. Till Friday Mishra had only played against the lower-ranked sides and this was his first T20I in nearly four years. He played his first match against Pakistan in the recently concluded Asia Cup. The leggie kept his skippers' faith and brilliantly bowled four overs and gave away only 22 runs and picked up two wickets. The 31-year-old returned with the figure of 4-1-22-2 with an economy of 5.50 and adjudged man of the match.

In their second match against the defending champions West Indies, India posted seven-wicket win and again Mishra bagged player of the match award with his superb figures of 4-0-18-2. He picked up two wickets off consecutive deliveries in the 15th over (his third over). First he lured Marlon Samuels to come out of the crease, as he tossed up a legbreak, Samuels came forward but the ball dipped and spun away from him beating the bat rest was taken care by Dhoni. Third umpire is not required in easy stumping. And in the next ball was a googly, which Dwayne Bravo, new batsman, failed to read, wrapped on to the pads and adjudged leg before wicket by the umpire.

So far he has played only three T20I and had preformed remarkably in all of them, in the debut match he gave away 21 runs and picked up one wicket in the form of Brendan Taylor against Zimbabwe in 2010.

Lets hope management will learn from Sunil Gavaskar's statement which he made during the dead rubber against Afghanistan in Asia Cup, when India fielded unchanged XI and said he wondered whether the "fear" of bench players succeeding over current favourites has prompted it to play the same team. Team management should not miss any chance to try their bench strength.

