Shillong Lajong pulled off a surprise as they thrashed Bengaluru FC 3-0 in a round 22 I-League fixture at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, Shillong. This was the first home match for the north eastern side in over three months and fans backed their side to topple the league leaders right from the start.

“It was a great atmosphere. We were highly due for a win. I would like to thank the supporters who came in huge numbers today. It’s great for football and Shillong especially. We have four matches to go. So we take all the positives and get ready for the next match (against Mumbai FC),” said coach Thangboi Singto.

The first half ended goal-less and Singto backed his players to score in the second half as he has a fit squad at his disposal.

“The plan was to not concede in the first half. We knew we had the tenacity, fitness and power to score in the second half if we defended well in the first half. That was the plan. The boys stuck to the plan and great performance from all of them.

“Big congratulations to all the players. They showed real spirit. We want to stay in the top five, and after Dempo won (against Mohammedan Sporting) there was a little bit of pressure but the boys took it positively. We played a great game,” he said.

In their nine away matches, Lajong have drawn, won and lost thrice each. Singto hopes that his team performs well on a consistent basis.

“Compared to last season we’ve done much better away from home too. We have to keep improving. We won the match against Dempo 3-0 away and so it is not that we aren’t good away from home. To become a good team we have to do well at home or away.”
The Spain international has stressed that Madrid should not be looking for excuses and feels the reigning champions outplayed their rivals.
Bet
= FCB 10.4$ Draw 110$ CEL 260$ WilliamHill
Xavi has laughed off suggestions that the referee favored Barcelona in Sunday's 4-3 win over Real Madrid and feels the Catalans were superior to their opponent.

Cristiano Ronaldo accused referee Undiano Mallenco of bias toward Barca after Sunday's spectacular encounter at the Santiago Bernabeu, but Xavi has stressed that the focus should be on the Blaugrana's performance rather than on the arbiter's decisions.

"We should not be talking about the ref. Barca were superior to Real Madrid and we have to focus on that," Xavi told reporters. "We were very comfortable on the ball. We did enough to deserve the win and I believe that it was a spectacular match.

"We’re very content and happy, our morale is very high. We’re one point away from Real Madrid and Atletico Madrid — it will be a great fight for the title. In addition, we have the goal average in our favor. It was an authoritative blow." 


