142 auxiliary polling centres set up for Lok Sabha elections
Bhopal: Election Commission of India has accorded sanction to proposal of setting up 142 auxiliary polling centres set up for Lok Sabha elections in the state. Chief Electoral Officer Shri Jaideep Govind has directed district election officers to ensure all necessary arrangements at these auxiliary polling centres.
Of these, 8 auxiliary polling centres have been sanctioned in Karera Vidhan Sabha constituency in Shivpuri district, 2 in Pohri, 11 in Shivpuri and 5 in Pichhor. In Tikamgarh district, 6 auxiliary polling centres have been sanctioned in Tikamgarh Vidhan Sabha constituency, 4 in Niwari and 5 auxiliary polling centres in Khargapur. In Shahdol district, one auxiliary polling centre has been set up in Byohari Vidhan Sabha constituency. In Anuppur district, 4 auxiliary polling centres have been sanctioned in Anuppur Vidhan Sabha constituency and one in Pushprajgarh. In Katni district, 2 auxiliary polling centres have been sanctioned in Vijahraghogarh Vidhan Sabha constituenc, 11 in Mudwara and 6 in Bahori Band. In Mandla district, 2 auxiliary polling centres have been sanctioned in Mandla Vidhan Sabha constituency. In Chhindwara district, one auxiliary polling centre each has been sanctioned in Junnardeo and Pandhurna Vidhan Sabha constituencies.
In Harda and Hoshangabad districts, one auxiliary polling centre each has been sanctioned. In Raisen district, 3 auxiliary polling centres have been sanctioned in Udaipura Vidhan Sabha constituency, 13 in Bhojpur, 5 in Sanchi and 3 in Silwani. In Shajapur district, 2 auxiliary polling centres have been sanctioned in Shajapur and one auxiliary polling centre in Kalapipal Vidhan Sabha constituency. In Dewas district, 3 auxiliary polling centres have been sanctioned in Dewas Vidhan Sabha constituency and one in Bagli. In Khandwa district, 4 auxiliary polling centres have been sanctioned in Mandhata Vidhan Sabha constituency, 5 in Khandwa and 4 auxiliary polling centres in Pandhana.
Similarly, in Khargone district, 2 auxiliary polling centres have been sanctioned in Bhikangaon Vidhan Sabha constituency, 2 in Maheshwar, 2 in Khargone and one in Bhagwanpura. In Barwani district, 3 auxiliary polling centres have been sanctioned in Pansemal Vidhan Sabha constituency and one in Barwani. In Dhar district, 2 auxiliary polling centres have been sanctioned in Gandhwani, 3 in Kukshi, one in Manawar, 2 in Dharampuri and one auxiliary polling centre has been sanctioned in Dhar Vidhan Sabha constituency.
State has 53 thousand 946 polling booths where polling for 29 Lok Sabha seats will be held in 3 phases.

