Cong demands action against CM For violation of Model Code of Conduct
The State Congress submitted a complaint of violation of Model Code of Conduct (MCC) against Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan with the Election Commission of India(ECI) and demanded action against him.
Madhya Pradesh Congress Committee Spokesman Ravi Saxena in a letter to the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) of the State Jaideep Govind urged to take action against the Chief Minister and other officials and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders indulged in violation of MCC.
Saxena in his letter to the CEO said that the Chouhan has become habitual of violating MCC, last week only on March 6; he held sit-in and fast in the State capital where the Chief Minister and his cabinet colleagues reached with red beacon cars.
In this programme BJP office bearers and workers collected about Rs 7.42 in presence of chief minister and his cabinet colleagues that was clear cut violation of MCC.
The Congress party has already lodged complaint against that with you, he added. Saxena further said that hardly four days have passed since then and the chief minister has again violated the MCC on Tuesday.
According to the information reaching, Chouhan talked to the media persons in the Mantralaya and talked on a sensitive issue associated with the majority community.
The issue that is in the interest of majority community would for sure affect the ensuing election. This attitude of chief minister clearly indicates that he does not bother about the MCC despite having complete information about it, he added.
He said that the Congress party wish to bring one more case that is also associated with the violation of the MCC. The Public Relations department of the State Government has published a full page advertisement in newspapers on Tuesday in which the Chief Minister and some State Government officials are seen inspecting the damaged crops due to the unseasoned rains and hailstorms.
The advertisement is being published with the intension of benefiting the ruling party in the Lok Sabha elections and hence is violation of MCC, he added.
The Congress demands action against the Chief Minister for talking with the news persons in the Mantralaya and against the officials of the Public Relations department for the publication of the advertisement, he added.
