High-voltage drama in Bhopal: Advani posters come up at dawn, Sangh pulls them down
BHOPAL: Hours before BJP central election committee kicked off its meeting on Wednesday to determine party patriarch L K Advani's Lok Sabha seat, there was high-voltage drama and hectic activity in the Madhya Pradesh capital. BJP workers put up huge banners in at least a dozen thoroughfares in the city at the crack of dawn, inviting Lal Krishna Advani to the constituency. 
Speaking to reporters, Alok Sharma, BJP Bhopal district president and a childhood friend of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, "It is all over the media that Advani may contest from Bhopal. Enthusiastic workers picked up cue and displayed the bill-boards."
But the enthusiasm did not last for long. By 2 pm, orders had come from the Sangh Parivar to pull down the banners with Advani's photograph and welcome messages. The state BJP brass had to act. The hoardings and banners vanished as swiftly as they had been put up. This even as the party patriarch went into a sulk in Delhi and was insistent on contesting from Bhopal.
While a big saffron drama was unfolding in Delhi, two state leaders were engaged in a debate over BJP candidature for the Bhopal Lok Sabha seat. Former chief minister and present state minister for home affairs Babulal Gaur argued he has been assured by the party central leadership that his daughter-in-law and mayor of Bhopal Krishna Gaur will be fielded. "It has been said Krishna being the elected mayor of the city is the most eligible and best suited," Gaur said.
On the contrary, former chief minister and two-term MP from Bhopal, Kailash Joshi, quipped, "When I decided not to contest from Bhopal constituency ten days ago, I wanted Advani to contest from this seat. His coming to Bhopal will not only benefit the people of the city, but also the state. I have been assured that Advani's name will be announced for Bhopal."
Senior BJP leader Kailash Joshi has represented the Bhopal constituency in the Lok Sabha since 2004. On March 9, state BJP president Narendra Singh Tomar visited his residence and chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan spoke to him over telephone. Joshi then called the media to his home and briefed them that he no longer wanted to contest. He said, "I am satisfied with my career and achievements. 
The party has given me more than I could have expected. And now I don't want to be part of electoral politics."Just a day after this announcement, he made another statement - this time to invite Lal Krishna Advani to contest from his seat. Joshi continued to voice the demand of bringing Advani to Bhopal. A senior leader in state BJP said "when the list of candidates went to the CEC, Bhopal constituency was left blank".
