Joshi may reclaim Bhopal seat
BHOPAL: With BJP patriarch LK Advani out of the fray, former chief minister and senior BJP leader Kailash Joshi might demand the Bhopal seat back - the constituency which he represented for two terms in the Lok Sabha from 2004 till date.
Speaking to TOI on Wednesday late evening, Kailash Joshi said, "Candidature for Bhopal will be decided tomorrow by state BJP president Narendra Singh Tomar and chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan."
Asked if he will be contesting from Bhopal for a third term in the Lok Sabha, Kailash Joshi explained, "Immediately after Advani from Gandhinagar was announced, I called Narendra Singh Tomar. He is currently touring in Rajgarh and said he will be back by tomorrow morning. A meeting will be fixed with both the chief minister, state BJP chief and other members of the state election committee in which I will also be present. A decision will have to be reached on the Bhopal seat by tomorrow."
Joshi had declared he will not contest the polls on March 9, a day before he invited Advani to contest from his constituency. There are chances that the party fields him again from the Bhopal seat. But in case the BJP wants a younger face to contest for the party from the state capital, there are two names that are in the race - BJP district president Alok Sharma who gave a tough fight to Congress leader Arif Aqueel from the Bhopal (North) assembly seat in 2008 assembly elections and Krishna Gaur, the daughter-in-law of home minister Babulal Gaur and the city's mayor. Kulhor resident Maharaj Singh has also lost most of his wheat crop. The grains have lost colour and are too small to fetch a viable price. He is also angry that compensation has not come and that the media is only bothered about Vishwakarma’s suicide. A Dalit named Bharat Singh died in the cold here a few days after Vishwakarma, he says, “but you don’t care because he didn’t have any land.”
He told this reporter: “Here compensation is not a political issue. People will blame the bureaucracy. Congress lost sway here because (former CM) Digvijaya Singh only cared about Dalits. Others, like my family, felt discriminated against. Today not only do Savarna castes, but also the Dalits vote for the BJP. Everyone wants to get any benefits that come their way.”
Every year, harvesting machines are driven all the way here from Punjab and Haryana to harvest the wheat crop — which ripens before the wheat in those states. Gurmeet Singh, a harvester driver from Patiala, told The Hindu that he has not seen such a depressing crop all these years.
“If they (farmers) lose, we lose. They don’t have any hope for compensation, so the demand for harvesters is also down. If this happened in Punjab, netas would be thrashed. But here people are loyal to the party (BJP),” he says.
Peasants standing beside him nod their heads. The eldest, Maharaj Dangi says, “What can we do? The BJP is in our fate. We can curse them but we can't change our fate."
