Withering crop, wilting lives, but BJP’s fortunes in the pink in Bhopal
At the entrance of almost every village on the damaged State Highway from Bhopal, a saffron sign of Bajrang Dal reads: “Hindu Rashtra ka Hindu Gaon” (“Hindu village of a Hindu nation”). In one such village, Kulhor, 60 km from the capital, a 45-year-old farmer, Kamal Vishwakarma, hanged himself from a ceiling fan in the early hours of February 27.
Kamal, along with his three sons, had been cultivating two acres of family land, and they were sharecroppers on another one-acre field. A hailstorm wrecked half their crops of wheat and chickpea. The family lost their soyabean crop to rain last year and has now run up a debt of more than Rs. 2.5 lakh, Kamal’s eldest son, Haricharan, says. As fate would have it, Kamal had met with a road accident with one Moolchand, whose son Pooran Sahu had been claiming Rs. 1 lakh as damages from the farmer.
Despite assurances from Chief Minister Shivraj Chouhan, the family has not got any compensation or insurance money for crops lost since 2012. At least 18 farmers committed suicide or died of shock during this black spring in Madhya Pradesh.
“People with three tractors and 20 acres of land get ration cards here, but not us. Here my sons are doing wage labour and my daughter’s engagement was broken after her father died. The MLA [BJP’s Vishnu Khatri] came to the entrance of the village, but did not enter our house. The Sarpanch [BJP’s Mahendra Singh] and others visited as if there was a fair in our house. We will only vote for those who stood by us,” says Kamal’s wife, Ratanbai, in tears.
Yet, Mr. Haricharan says, the BJP will win. “Compensation or no compensation, we need the BJP to survive. Their men get us fair prices for grain at the procurement centres,” he told The Hindu. Such is the influence of the BJP in Bhopal district. With its roots in the 10 shakhas of the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh in the pre-merger princely state of Bhopal, the BJP has found the district a safe seat, holding it since 1989. While the Congress manages to put up a fight in the capital, it is the saffron flag that flies the tallest in most of rural Bhopal. “I have seen this for the past decade. Farmers will curse the government when crops fail. Compensation will either not come or be insufficient. But come elections, they vote for the BJP,” says Narendra Sharma, Berasia-based general secretary of the MP Kisan Khet Mazdoor Congress.
Crops had failed during Congress rule too, he says, and farmers would vote against the party if they were not satisfied with the compensation. “In the case of the BJP, it is different. Most people believe that the BJP is the defender of Hinduism and not voting for them creates a ‘dharam sankat’ (spiritual crisis),” he says.
Massive loss
Kulhor resident Maharaj Singh has also lost most of his wheat crop. The grain has lost colour and are too small to fetch a good price. He is angry that compensation has not come and that the media is only bothered about Kamal’s suicide. A Dalit, Bharat Singh, died in the cold here a few days after Kamal’s death, he says, “but you don’t care because he didn’t have any land.”
“Here compensation is not a political issue. People will blame the bureaucracy. The Congress lost sway here because [former Chief Minister] Digvijaya Singh only cared about Dalits. Others, as my family, felt discriminated against. Today, not only Savarna castes [upper castes] but also Dalits vote for the BJP. Everyone wants to get any benefits that come their way,” he says. Every year, mechanised harvesters are driven all the way here from Punjab and Haryana to harvest the wheat crop, which ripens earlier than in those States. Gurmeet Singh, a harvester driver from Patiala, says he has not seen such a depressing crop as the one this year. “If they [farmers] lose, we lose. They don’t have any hope for compensation, so the demand for harvesters is also down. If this happened in Punjab, netas would be thrashed. But here people are loyal to the party (BJP),” he says.

