Hoardings welcoming the elderly leader put up in Bhopal, removed
BHOPAL: He will, he won’t. The speculations about BJP veteran Lal Krishna Advani contesting from Bhopal kept the politically- inclined busy throughout the day on Wednesday.
Arguments and counter- arguments were dished out and minutely debated. Some enthusiastic BJP workers even installed hoardings in the city ‘ Welcoming Advani’. An embarrassed party leadership got them removed. Bhopal is one of the safest seats for BJP in the country. The party has been winning from here for the last 25 years without a break. Speculations about Advani’s candidature began soon after sitting MP Kailash Joshi declined to enter the poll arena and declared that he had invited Advani to contest from Bhopal.
The speculations were fuelled by the party withholding the announcement of its candidate from Bhopal. It continues to be withheld even now. However, the speculations ended late in the evening when the BJP officially announced from Delhi that Advani will be contesting from his traditional seat of Gandhinagar in Gujarat.
welcoming BJP Parliamentary Board Chairman Lal Krishna Advani to Bhopal triggered controversy. Although the party had not officially declared that Advani will contest from Bhopal but hoardings welcoming came up in the city. These hoardings were removed when they sparked controversy.
The hoardings led to a rumour that Advani, fearing BJP PM candidate Narendra Modi, wishes to contest elections not from Gandhinagar but from Bhopal. The hoardings were removed at the behest of a senior party leader, as they could widen the perceived rift between Advani and Modi. BJP district president Alok Sharma said MP Kailash Joshi wishes Advani to contest from Bhopal seat and the party workers honouring his wish had got the hoardings installed.
Sharma said he did not know who removed the hoardings. Kailash Joshi, choosing to steer clear of the controversy, commented that he did request Advani to contest from Bhopal seat and if he does so then he would be very happy. Home minister Babulal Gaur, who has sought ticket for his daughter- in- law Krishna Gaur, said that if Advani contests from Bhopal seat then he would withdraw the candidature of Krishna. The hoardings of Advani installed in the city came as a surprise to the BJP leaders too. With Joshi stepping down, there is a sort of tug- of- war going on between the party leaders to get ticket from Bhopal seat.
 
