MP BJP in huddle for Bhopal candidate
BHOPAL: After L K Advani gave up his claim from Bhopal, the state BJP leadership went into a huddle on Thursday to prepare a panel of candidates for the prestigious seat and district chief Alok Sharma, a long time associate of Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Chauhan is seen as frontrunner. 
Chauhan, state BJP president Narendra Singh Tomar, oganisational secretary Arvind Menon besides outgoing MP Kailash Joshi took part in the discussions. 
Alok Sharma is a known face in the constituency. During the 2008 assembly poll, he gave a tough fight to Congress' Arif Aqueel from the Muslim-dominated Bhopal (North) seat. 
The only other name in the panel is that of former Union minister and senior party leader Vikram Verma. However, party sources claimed it is quite certain Alok Sharma will be fielded from the constituency.
Meanwhile, dynastic politics has been set aside for the remaining five seats. Several cabinet ministers were lobbying for tickets for their family members, including Jayant Malaiyya for his wife Sudha, Bhupendra Singh for his wife Saroj, Gopal Bhargav for his son Abhishekh and Gauri Shankar Bisen for his daughter Mausam. 
The first shock was delivered to Bisen when state BJP president Tomar announced the name of Bodh Singh Bhagat from the Balaghat constituency. Though names of candidates for the other four seats were not declared, the panel excluded kin of ministers. 
For Khajuraho seat, the central election committee has to decide between former minister for agriculture development Ramkrishna Kusmaria and sitting MP from the seat, Jitendra Singh Bundela. For Mandsaur, the option is between former Rajya Sabha MP and RSS pracharak Raghunandan Sharma and Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (the BJP farmers' wing) president Bansilal Gujjar. 
Meanwhile, with Bhopal being the backdrop of a fresh round of infighting in BJP, questions are being asked if the suggestion that veteran leader L K Advani contest the Lok Sabha polls from here were more than a casual development. 
On March 9, former chief minister and sitting MP from Bhopal Kailash Joshi called a press conference to claim he was not going to contest. A day after, Joshi issued a statement inviting Advani to contest from Bhopal. 
While some wonder whether the move had the tacit support of Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Chauhan, party leaders point out that his options for the seat centre around local leader Alok Sharma and former sports minister Vikram Verma. 
Despite attempts to prop him up as a counter to Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi, the low profile Madhya Pradesh CM has been chary of being caught up in a factional cross fire.
