CHAOS IN BJP MAY THROW SURPRISING RESULTS
Can the BJP quell the rebellion over the selection of Lok Sabha candidates from Madhya Pradesh? If it fails, it might well say goodbye to the hope of winning all 29 seats in the State. Those denied tickets are frowning at the double standards in offering tickets and are laughing at the claims of a clean sweep by the party.
The State selection committee consisting of State BJP president Narendra Singh Tomar, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and organisation secretary Arvind Menon have been able to keep former Chief Minister Uma Bharti out of the State. Bharti’s nomination from Jhansi keeps her in UP. In its list for 24 of the 29 constituencies the party dropped four sitting MPs, rewarded two defectors and fielded three legislators. None of the nine ministers who sought tickets for their relatives have been obliged so far. Some of them are still camping in Delhi.
Rajya Sabha member Phaggan Singh Kulaste and Anoop Mishra, who failed to win the assembly elections have also been nominated. The list includes five women. Among the surprises was the selection of Chintamani Malviya a professor of philosophy at Vikram University in Ujjain. Malviya’s name was reported to have been proposed at the instance of RSS and he is to take on controversial Congress candidate Prem Chand Guddu from the Ujjain constituency, which has been reserved for scheduled castes.
Meanwhile, five times MP from Shajapur-Dewas, Phool Chand Verma, has shot off letters to Rajnath Singh and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat in which he has questioned the manner in which tickets were being distributed by the party. Verma’s letter was leaked to the media apparently to send a stern message to the leadership. Former Union Minister, Arif Beg, who lost the Assembly election in November, has recommended the name of Bhopal mayor Krishna Gaur for the city’s Lok Sabha seat. Krishna, the daughter-in-law of the former Chief Minister Babulal Gaur also has the backing of Sushma Swaraj, the leader of the opposition in Lok Sabha and a candidate from Vidisha. Gaur has been camping in Delhi for her. The case of Shivraj Chouhan’s wife Sadhna Singh is equally curious. She has been tipped to contest for Vidisha assembly seat vacated by her husband on being elected from Budhni. It has set tongues wagging in the party. With so many other leaders being told not to seek tickets for their relatives the party has angered aspirants who vacated their parliament seats to contest the state assembly elections.

