BJP is not a communal party: Bava, Yulios
Indore: “ A communal party represents a particular community, hence the BJP is not a communal party, but a nationalistic party” said Bishop Geevarghese Mar ulios of Ahmedabad and Moran Mar Baselios Marthoma Paulose II ( Catholica Bava) in a joint- press conference in the city on the occasion of 20th anniversary of St Mary’s Orthodox Syrian Church in Khajrana, on Saturday.
They said that Muslim League or Christian league or those representing particular community are called communal parties but not the BJP, which is a nationalistic party.
Informing about their recent meeting with BJP’s prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi, the duo said: “ We spoke to him about the need to develop our educational system and he readily agreed to join hands with us for the same”. They said that Modi agreed to help kids of the nation by providing them quality education. The duo added that the current education scenario is good but with some changes it can reach new height and our pupil would get a chance to study in an environment that provides them wide exposure.
Talking on the occasion of 20th anniversary of the church, Moran Mar Baselios Marthoma Paulose II ( Catholica Bava) and Bishop Geevarghese Mar ulios, who came here to bless the community members, said the region is very vibrant.
Talking about youths of the community, they said that they are the building block of any nation and India is quite rich with them. They added that the youths must excel and contribute their services for the welfare of the community.
They said that the community has 20 churches in the region and a chain of health centers. Adding to this they said, soon Indore would have an AIDS rehabilitation center and then other community beneficiary centers would also be opened. They said that this church is the head church of the region which includes Khandwa, Mhow, Pithampur, Nagda and Dewas.
They declare it as ‘ Valiya Palli.’ Informing about the finances for development projects, the duo said that the community contributes within and the willing members of the community present globally donates 1/ 10th of their income for carrying out developments.
They added that the community is a self- financed one and don’t have any financial assistance from foreign countries.Some of the senior most community members were felicitated by the visiting dignitaries during a programme later in the evening.
