SUSHMA SWARAJ SAYS NAMO WAVE SWEEPING INDIA
Leader of Opposition in the Lok Sabha Sushma Swaraj claimed on Sunday that a wave, in favour of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s prime ministerial nominee and Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi, is sweeping the country and would definitely prove beneficial in the general elections.
“Besides, Modi’s Madhya Pradesh counterpart Shivraj Singh Chouhan has done good work. I urge BJP workers to toil with total engrossment as they have a crucial responsibility in formation of the National Democratic Alliance regime at the Centre,” the saffron party’s Vidisha candidate said while addressing BJP workers Raisen district headquarters, which is within the constituency’s limits. In the context of her statement regarding bigwig Jaswant Singh which appeared in media on Sunday, she hinted that the Press should bury the matter.
Swaraj presently on the campaign trail is in the fray from Vidisha for the second successive time and is in an eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation with the Congress’ Lakshman Singh who is the younger sibling of party general secretary and ex-chief Minister Digvijay Singh.
She said that together would we accomplish ‘Mission 29’ in the State so that we could realise the Mission 272+ for making Government at the Centre. She plans to meet over fifty thousand party workers during her campaigning.
“I am continuously meeting the workers and during the past 27 days hold meetings with the booth level party workers to establish direct dialogue with them. Till now four Assembly conventions have been held in the past few days only,” Sushma said.
Addressing the party workers, the senior BJP leader said that two very important factors should be considered for registering victory in the elections, favourable atmosphere and better booth management. Party workers should keep in mind these two factors for ensuring victory in the elections, she added.
Attacking on the Congress Swaraj said that the atmosphere is in our favour due to good work done by our State Government while the Congress leadership is based on premonitions and speculations. 


